E2E Testing (and some testing pages in general!) Documentation Refresh (#1170)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/contribute/more-info/mobile/e2e.md

---
title: "Mobile End-to-End (E2E) Tests"
heading: "Mobile End-to-End (E2E) tests at Mattermost"
description: "This page describes how to write and run End-to-End (E2E) testing for Mobile Apps for both iOS and Android."
date: 2020-09-01T09:00:00-00:00
weight: 5
aliases:
  - /contribute/mobile/e2e
  - /contribute/more-info/mobile/e2e/android/
  - /contribute/more-info/mobile/e2e/ios/
  - /contribute/more-info/mobile/e2e/guide-for-writing/
  - /contribute/more-info/mobile/e2e/environment-vars/
  - /contribute/more-info/mobile/e2e/file-structure/
---

This page describes how to write and run End-to-End (E2E) testing for Mobile Apps for both iOS and Android. Mobile products use {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox" title="Detox" >}}, which is a "gray box end-to-end testing and automation library for mobile apps." See its {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox/tree/master/docs" title="documentation" >}} to learn more.

### File Structure

> The folder structure is mostly based on the {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/Guide.Jest.md" title="Detox scaffold" >}}, which was created on the initial run. The folders and files are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The folder structure is as follows:
```

```
|-- detox
  |-- e2e
    |-- support
    |-- test
    |-- config.json
    |-- environment.js
    |-- init.js
  |-- .babelrc
  |-- .detoxrc.json
  |-- package-lock.json
  |-- package.json
```

> * `/detox/e2e/support` or {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/Guide.Jest.md#2-set-up-test-code-scaffolds-building_construction" title="Support Files" >}}: This is the support folder, which is a place to put reusable behavior such as Server API and UI commands, or global overrides that should be available to all test files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `/detox/e2e/support` is the support folder, which is a place to put reusable behavior such as Server API and UI commands, or global overrides that should be available to all test files.
```

> * `/detox/e2e/test` or {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.TestLifecycle.md" title="Test Files" >}}: To start writing tests, create a new file (e.g. `login.e2e.js`) in the `/detox/e2e/test` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `/detox/e2e/test`: To start writing tests, create a new file (e.g. `login.e2e.js`) in the `/detox/e2e/test` folder.
```

    - The subfolder naming convention depends on the test grouping, which is usually based on the general functional area (e.g. `/detox/e2e/test/messaging/` for "Messaging").
    - Test cases that require an Enterprise license should fall under `/detox/e2e/test/enterprise/`. This is to easily identify license requirements, both during local development and production testing for Enterprise features.

> * `/detox/.detoxrc.json`: for Detox {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.Configuration.md" title="configuration" >}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `/detox/.detoxrc.json`: for Detox configuration.
```

1. Create a test file based on the file structure aforementioned above.
2. Include Zephyr identification (ID) and title in the test description, following the format of `it('[Zephyr_id] [title]')` or `it('[Zephyr_id]_[step] [title]')` if the test case has multiple steps. For test case "{{< newtabref href="https://mattermost.atlassian.net/projects/MM?selectedItem=com.atlassian.plugins.atlassian-connect-plugin%3Acom.kanoah.test-manager__main-project-page#!/testCase/MM-T109" title="MM-T109 RN apps: User can't send the same message repeatedly" >}}", it should be:
    ```javascript
    describe('Messaging', () => {
        it('MM-T109 User can\'t send the same message repeatedly', () => {
            // Test steps and assertion here
        }
    }
    ```

> 4. Target an element using available {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.Matchers.md#matchers" title="matchers" >}}. For best results, it is recommended to match elements by unique identifiers using `testID`. The identifier should follow the following format to avoid duplication, `<location>.<modifier>.<element>.<identifier>`, where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Target an element using available matchers. For best results, it is recommended to match elements by unique identifiers using `testID`. The identifier should follow the following format to avoid duplication, `<location>.<modifier>.<element>.<identifier>`, where:
```

  {{<note "NOTE:">}}
  Not all fields are required. When assigning a `testID`, carefully inspect the actual render structure and pick up the minimum fields combination to create a unique value. Some examples include: `send.button` and `post.<post-id>`. 
  {{</note>}}

    * `location` - can be a parent component, a main section, or a UI screen.
    * `modifier` - adds meaning to the `element`.
    * `element` - common terms like `button`, `text_input`, `image`, and the like.
    * `identifier` - could be unique ID of a post, channel, team or user, or a number to represent order.
  
5. Prefix each comment line with appropriate indicator. Each line in a multi-line comment should be prefixed accordingly. Separate and group test step comments and assertion comments for better readability.
    - `#` indicates a test step (e.g. `// # Go to a screen`)
    - `*` indicates an assertion (e.g. `// * Check the title`)

> 6. Simulate user interaction using available {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.ActionsOnElement.md" title="actions" >}}, and verify user interface (UI) expectations using {{< newtabref href="https://github.com/wix/Detox/blob/master/docs/APIRef.Expect.md" title="expect" >}}. When using `action`, `match`, or another API specific to particular platform, verify that the equivalent logic is applied so that the API does not impact the other platform. Always run tests in both platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Simulate user interaction using available actions, and verify user interface (UI) expectations using `expect`. When using `action`, `match`, or another API specific to a particular platform, verify that the equivalent logic is applied so that the API does not impact other platforms. Always run tests in applicable platforms.
```
